Feature/satellite graphs 2 (#400)
arangodb/docs: 3.7/graphs-satellite-graphs-management.md

---
layout: default
description: This chapter describes the JavaScript interface for creating and modifying SatelliteGraphs
title: SatelliteGraphs JS API
---
Satellite Graph Management
======================

This chapter describes the JavaScript interface for creating and modifying
SatelliteGraphs. A SatelliteGraph is a specialized version of a GeneralGraph,
which means all of the GeneralGraph functionality is available on a
SatelliteGraph as well. The major difference of both modules is handling of
the underlying collections:

- GeneralGraphs do not enforce or maintain any sharding of the collections and
  can therefore combine arbitrary sets of existing collections.

> - SatelliteGraphs enforce and rely on a special properties of the underlying

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- SatelliteGraphs enforce and rely on special properties of the underlying
```

the relations is identical. The only difference is that all collections used within
the relations to create a new SatelliteGraph must fit the [collection rules](graphs-satellite-graphs-details.html#the-initial-collection)
of the SatelliteGraph. Using the SatelliteGraph module to create the Graph collections,
will take care of the correct collection properties.

`graph_module._create(graphName, edgeDefinitions, orphanCollections)`

- `graphName` (string):
  Unique identifier of the graph
- `edgeDefinitions` (array):
  List of relation definition objects, may be empty
- `orphanCollections` (array):
  List of additional vertex collection names, may be empty

API `edgeDefinitions` and `orphanCollections` can be given, but both are optional.
You can also add collections later, after the SatelliteGraph creation took place.

The `edgeDefinitions` can be created using the convenience method `_relation`
known from the `general-graph` module, which is also available here.

`orphanCollections` again is just a list of additional vertex collections which
are not yet connected via edges but should follow the same sharding to be
connected later on.

> All collections used within the creation process are newly created or ,if already

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All collections used within the creation process are newly created or, if already
```

    @END_EXAMPLE_ARANGOSH_OUTPUT
    @endDocuBlock satelliteGraphCreateManagement_2_cluster
{% endarangoshexample %}
{% include arangoshexample.html id=examplevar script=script result=result %}

Create a graph with edge definitions and orphan collections:

{% arangoshexample examplevar="examplevar" script="script" result="result" %}
    @startDocuBlockInline satelliteGraphCreateManagement_3_cluster
    @EXAMPLE_ARANGOSH_OUTPUT{satelliteGraphCreateManagement_3_cluster}
      var graph_module = require("@arangodb/satellite-graph");
      var edgeDefinitions = [ graph_module._relation("myRelation", ["male", "female"], ["male", "female"]) ];
      var graph = graph_module._create("myGraph", edgeDefinitions, ["sessions"]);
      graph_module._graph("myGraph");
     ~graph_module._drop("myGraph", true);
    @END_EXAMPLE_ARANGOSH_OUTPUT
    @endDocuBlock satelliteGraphCreateManagement_3_cluster
{% endarangoshexample %}
{% include arangoshexample.html id=examplevar script=script result=result %}

Modify a SatelliteGraph definition at runtime
------------------------------------

After you have created a SatelliteGraph its definition is not immutable. You can

> still add or remove relations. This is again identical to General Graphs.

Reviewer: mhm I wonder we write:
`SatelliteGraph`
and
`General Graphs`

mind the gap.
Is this intentional, which should be the correct writing?
@Simran-B

Reviewer 2: Enterprise Edition features: FooBar (no space), but General Graphs with a space as per Ingo.

However there is one important difference: You can only add collections that
either *do not exist*, or that have been created with the correct collection

> properties. Either through the graph module or either manually.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
properties. Either through the graph module or manually.
```

### Remove a vertex collection

Remove a vertex collection from the graph:

`graph._removeVertexCollection(vertexCollectionName, dropCollection)`

- `vertexCollectionName` (string):
  Name of vertex collection.
- `dropCollection` (bool, _optional_):
  If true the collection will be dropped if it is not used in any other graph.
  Default: false.

In most cases this function works identically to the General Graph one.
But there is one special case: The first vertex collection added to the graph
(either orphan or a vertex collection within a relation) defines the sharding
for all collections within the graph. They have their `distributeShardsLike`
attribute set to the name of the [initial](graphs-satellite-graphs-details.html#the-initial-collection)

> collection. This collection can not be dropped as long as other collections

Reviewer: ```suggestion
collection. This collection cannot be dropped as long as other collections
```

Note that removing a Graph with the option to drop the collections fails if
you removed collections from the Graph but did not drop these collections.
This is because their `distributeShardsLike` attribute still references
collections that are part of the Graph. Dropping collections while others
point to them in this way is not allowed. Make sure to drop the referencing
collections first.

{% arangoshexample examplevar="examplevar" script="script" result="result" %}
    @startDocuBlockInline satelliteGraphRemoveManagement_2_cluster
    @EXAMPLE_ARANGOSH_OUTPUT{satelliteGraphRemoveManagement_2_cluster}
     ~var graph_module = require("@arangodb/satellite-graph");
     ~var relation = graph_module._relation("edges", "vertices", "vertices");
     ~var graph = graph_module._create("myGraph", [relation], ["other"]);
      graph._removeVertexCollection("other");
      graph_module._drop("myGraph", true); // xpError(ERROR_CLUSTER_MUST_NOT_DROP_COLL_OTHER_DISTRIBUTESHARDSLIKE)
     ~db._drop("other");
     ~db._drop("vertices");
    @END_EXAMPLE_ARANGOSH_OUTPUT
    @endDocuBlock satelliteGraphRemoveManagement_2_cluster
{% endarangoshexample %}

> {% include arangoshexample.html id=examplevar script=script result=result %}

Reviewer: Good job here :+1:
Very precise and complete, all covered by examples, I like.
